Jim Clark: something worth classes that that's The one thing that we found that you know it's like it's winding down that wait wait.
Jim Clark: we're not ready yet.
Jim Clark: we're ready.
Jim Clark: we're not but.
Jim Clark: We are, and then we're not.
Jones, Edward R: can't believe it's all over yeah what are you gonna do with my life now right.
Now so.
Jones, Edward R: let's get started tonight.
tonight is a short class.
Jones, Edward R: We go will be hopefully over by by nine o'clock now I hope.
Jones, Edward R: i'm able to cover everything want to cover but two hours may not be enough, in which case i'll be talking a little bit more about what what we're talking about tomorrow night.
Jones, Edward R: As usual we'll have a quick Q amp a tomorrow night it'll be recorded and so, if you can't make it please you can access it there.
Jones, Edward R: Now.
Jones, Edward R: here's the bad part Jim i'm on a little bitty laptop right here and i'm trying to.
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to try to get all my stuff together to you know to do the class So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to go to.
Jones, Edward R: A campus and download some files so.
Jones, Edward R: let's see if I can do that.
Jones, Edward R: first thing I need to do is share my screen right.
Jones, Edward R: Share screen.
Jones, Edward R: And that's going to be my screen right there I guess.
Jones, Edward R: share.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so.
Jones, Edward R: Hopefully you can you can see.
Jones, Edward R: You can see my screen a little bit.
Clay Coleman: Yes.
Jones, Edward R: You can see it okay all right good all right so we're going to go to each campus then.
Jones, Edward R: And we're going to log in there.
Jones, Edward R: And just follow, along with me here.
Jones, Edward R: i'm already logged in hey Elliot.
So.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Oh we're in week three so let's go to the week three folder.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, is that large enough for.
Karen Fireman: You see, the week three folder Sir.
Jones, Edward R: it's Karen yeah carrying that was That would be my next question is.
Jones, Edward R: too small.
Karen Fireman: No, no, we can't see it on airs.
Brian Frankel: It needs to be released.
Jim Clark: yeah we don't have week three or week for.
Jim Clark: available to us right now.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, let me double check and make sure yeah I see why because it's hidden right.
Jones, Edward R: So i'm going to have to turn it on I think that's the problem.
Jones, Edward R: Show link.
Jones, Edward R: And you should be able to see that we're so week three there now.
Brian Frankel: Yes, it is Professor.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, great thanks a lot alright, the first thing we want to do, then, is, you see, where it says week three lecture notes that's the PowerPoint so i'm going to download that here.
Jones, Edward R: You might you know you might if you're going to follow along you might do that as well.
Jones, Edward R: Open that up.
Jones, Edward R: And then there's some other files that we're going to get off now.
Jones, Edward R: As.
Jones, Edward R: Jim said, this is your last class.
Jones, Edward R: One of your last classes this year last semester, so if you haven't thought about it, you might be thinking about what am I going to put on my resume right.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: I wanted to mention that some of the things we're doing in class here should be on your resume you might think about putting them on your resume, especially if you're going to be looking for a job from somebody like Google or one of those kind of social media or computer places.
Jones, Edward R: So what can you put on your your your resume so far, well, you could say yeah I know how to do goose on Python I know I know about decanter.
Jones, Edward R: I can, I can make movies, so I will put down on my little resume familiar with the counter and and Python gui construction on various platforms, you know.
Jones, Edward R: Well tonight you're going to be able to put another notch in your gun.
Jones, Edward R: Because tonight we're talking about Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: And Google cloud is is not that old so you are you're going to be one of you may have some.
Jones, Edward R: leg up on some other people in terms of of this sort of thing because you're going to learn a lot about Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: And, in particular, even now, this is why I say Oh, we have enough time here in two hours but we're going to be looking at language translation using Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: So you're going to learn about what is Google cloud, how do I get to use it, what can I do for me if I want, if I do decide to use it, you know that sort of thing.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: What we're going to do, then tonight what i'd like to do is really look at three things.
Jones, Edward R: And hang on a second here.
Jones, Edward R: I need to.
Jones, Edward R: Know okay yeah good not can see the screen we're going to do three things number one we're going to look at the week to assignment review that'll be quite a quick.
Jones, Edward R: And then we're going to talk about Google cloud and language translation translation and we're going to actually get into it with Python so by the time we get out of here tonight you'll be doing language translation, which is a lot of fun with Python, with the help of Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: So let's first of all talk about yeah yes Simon last week, and this was not exactly heavily heavy lifting I hope you didn't have any trouble with it.
Jones, Edward R: My brother's calling me.
Jones, Edward R: He probably wants to know if i'm still alive okay i'll have to call them back so yeah the way week to assignment, if you have trouble with that assignment, let me know.
Jones, Edward R: Because it should have been fairly easily easy lifting, and the reason is what I did was I gave you a template.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to do the same thing again tonight I give you a program that's sort of like half constructed and then this case, the template was had the name plot gui P, why.
Jones, Edward R: And then you were asked to complete it by adding a frame in the upper right hand side with some stock selections there like moderna and that was so you have a you have a new thing you have to do, which is a frame inside of a frame.
Jones, Edward R: And then you have this check button it's called check button that you're going to be using and where you did use.
Jones, Edward R: And when somebody clicks on this chat button, well, it should complete the stock information, the current information for that stock and also show you the plot if one of these three buttons is.
Jones, Edward R: checked here, so in this case, closing price was checked So when I checked on moderna it showed the basic stock information on the left and then it also showed the closing price here on the right.
Jones, Edward R: And, of course, more data has been doing quite well because they're getting a lot of the vaccine out to places that need it.
Jones, Edward R: And there's this, by the way, is a commercial organization and they do sell stock and so they're very happy well or not happy about the pandemic but it's her business so it's good that they're in the middle of it.
Jones, Edward R: Now let's go on and talk a little.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Is anyone else, without audio.
Jim Clark: No audio no video is silent.
Karen Fireman: I was hearing but i'd stopped.
hearing.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: And I.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: think I was dropped off prevent.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Something from Jamie there.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: Professor Jones you're on mute.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: that's a fancy phone.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Jordan I gotta tell you the color scheme going on, and I can work is wild approved, but it is a wild map.
Jordan Gross: How dare you come in here and criticize my vibes out, and I will not stand for it but.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: I can't my cameras off I can't say anything.
Jordan Gross: If you need me to change them up i'll do some lighting settings this will alternate in the background, a bit for you it's kind of more of a big summertime mood I hope that's all right.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: We can all use more summertime.
Jordan Gross: that's fair we're doing our best we got to get you got to get the keyboard in there, a little bit to the angles and possible but you know we do our best.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: But Sam are you are you operating out of the southern hemisphere there with your bright sky when you're known as lovely summer weather.
Gupta, Satyam: Will this photo was shot in Scotland so it's not Southern hemisphere, but.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Thankfully, cold okay I got you know matter of time of year is called.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Alright, so i'll just ask which one of y'all have game star admitted admitted publicly on the record went out there and bought the game starts.
Jordan Gross: Now, for lack of effort, but yeah we didn't take that plunge their butts are about it.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: I wanna I want to see your losses and so i'm saying, if you go in, I want to see it.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Because i'm on that train baby.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: Oh, I.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: I bought emc men not came stock.
Karen Fireman: Okay, really.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: I think I got like six years or something but yeah yeah sometimes you gotta live, you know.
Karen Fireman: When I thought it was interesting as a doctor you Sarah was advising us on on the financial aspects.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: I think has been atrocious like the Wednesday market should have squeezed and anyways that's a 30 minute conversation.
Yes.
Jim Clark: You notice when you look at the silver shares that was led to it really has jumped.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: It was a pump and dump my man so basically like a number of hedge funds were pushing people to buy into silver and saying oh it's the next big thing.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: got a whole bunch of suckers to go over by those stocks and basically liquidate out of some of the the no means stock.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: It was a complete farce thing every news organization was publishing that ws be as loving the silver and now that's a joke, is an absolute joke vsp was like ranted about how anyone was saying that, let alone that everyone is saying that.
Jordan Gross: As someone who is on reddit always yeah, no, no one had mentioned silver everyone I started seeing those articles, it was on the Left field.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Now, and just.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: straight up fear uncertainty doubt campaign is entirely it.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Anyone you self publish that like be very wary of that.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Going forward.
Gupta, Satyam: I just want to say that I think everything is fine with Dr Jones set up he's just muted from zoom that just needs to be unmuted.
Gupta, Satyam: that's my opinion.
Karen Fireman: Oh wow maybe he does.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: Well, we there was something before that, though there's something that kicked it or something to that effect, I think they're trying to troubleshoot.
Karen Fireman: yeah I think jamie's down there trying to help too.
Jordan Gross: So I did get one new Toy i'm going to share with everybody real quick let's see if this works.
Jordan Gross: It depends on if the threshold picks it up, but hopefully it's streaming through the beach boys right now.
Karen Fireman: been always good.
David Purkiss: yeah we hear it.
Jordan Gross: yeah that sounds fine So here we are.
Jordan Gross: record player.
Jordan Gross: see if I can pass.
Jim Clark: it's got its got the pet sounds album and he's got he's got an old fashioned black turntable.
Karen Fireman: still have one of those.
Jordan Gross: Who we call this one old fashioned I know.
Jim Clark: When I was a kid when you had money you bought a diamond needle.
yeah.
Jordan Gross: I don't think mines all that classic your fancy.
Jordan Gross: You do all right, we do.
Jordan Gross: I just wanted to have a nice little camera setup I have a little radio station where I leave my house, I can see my cat if she decides to hang here.
Karen Fireman: love to see them.
fantastic.
Karen Fireman: that's nice Jordan.
Jordan Gross: We have fun, you know.
Gupta, Satyam: We muted Dr Jones.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, can you hear me.
Karen Fireman: Yes, sir.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, good.
Jones, Edward R: whoa.
Jones, Edward R: wow Okay, let me share my screen back again and what happened was.
Jones, Edward R: I was on I was on a network, we have two networks here and.
Jones, Edward R: share.
Jones, Edward R: And I was on a network that was open and the system said wait a minute there's someone attacking in and you need to get out of here and just dropping out.
Jones, Edward R: So, then, I now back in the secure network, and so I think.
Jones, Edward R: we'll be okay now we'll see okay.
Jones, Edward R: Can you see my screen.
Karen Fireman: Just a screen nothing on it, oh there we go yes.
Jones, Edward R: Okay okay so.
Jones, Edward R: hang on a SEC, going back to week three the E campus.
Jones, Edward R: And we get back on the week three campus.
Jones, Edward R: gonna have to download some more files.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, there we are so we have the lecture notes running right now.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to look at.
Jones, Edward R: Where we there is a solution to the week, this one right here this link right here, the second link is a solution to the week to assignment.
Jones, Edward R: So if you click that and download it you'll have the entire Code, the entire solution which produces that frame and all the little check buttons in there.
Jones, Edward R: And what i'm doing now in the in the PowerPoint is showing you talking a little bit about how the frame is done so, this code is in that file and, if you look to do an edit on look for stock underscore frame you'll find this code and you'll see that it is being set up in column three.
Jones, Edward R: And row number one now, why is it column three will because they because, on the mainframe.
Jones, Edward R: frame there's a frame called main frame we have three columns one, two and three, and so we wanted that new frame the stock frame to go in third column will be here on the far right.
Jones, Edward R: row well the room is officially we're going to put it in the upper left hand corner, right here that's rule number one.
Jones, Edward R: So column three row number one is where i'm pointing to right now, now it says columns spanned six if you look at the number of checkboxes here there's more.
Jones, Edward R: A row span equal to six or more than six like seven or eight or so checks things in here.
Jones, Edward R: The six comes from the fact that the role they actually wrote counters right here, these entry, there are six entry boxes.
Jones, Edward R: So, as far as the mainframe is concerned mainframe is concerned, it sees you have three columns and six rows it right in this area.
Jones, Edward R: There is a seventh row which contains the the checkboxes in the middle and then an eighth row which contains the label that it when, in which we inserted the graph.
Jones, Edward R: So sometimes this this column and row thing can be confusing, but you have to kind of remember that the column and row is relative to the perspective of the frame that you're putting this thing on.
Jones, Edward R: So we created a new frame stock frame and we're putting it on top of the mainframe but and from the mainframe view this is column three.
Jones, Edward R: And then that little area that we're covering is that six rosen so that's why you have column equal to three and then row span equal to six.
Jones, Edward R: columns span equal to two white to Oh, my goodness, it looks like we only have one column inside of this frame.
Jones, Edward R: And that's true inside of this new frame, we only have one single column, but the span of this new frame is actually two columns So you can see these little check buttons on the bottom.
Jones, Edward R: There are two chat buttons here they're actually in two different columns on mainframes mainframe has 1234 columns actually 1234.
Jones, Edward R: So this guy is going into column three but it's actually going to cover columns three and four on the mainframe mainframe is this whole picture here.
Jones, Edward R: If you can so I just wanted to point that out, and we add in some extra batting 50 that's the left hand side and so that's that lip out and you see here that makes it look like everything is centered we actually cheated on I actually cheated on that split that extra betting right there.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, no.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: See, where I will make sure you're there so yeah so then we set up these buttons that are inside that new frame now once we create that new frame these buttons are going to go in there, one on top of the other, this is the first button for IBM and it's in row one.
Jones, Edward R: column one because that know these numbers, the column numbers in here see we're using the stock frame we're using that little frame on the right hand side not mainframe.
Jones, Edward R: So, because we're using stop frame the counters for rowan column start over again.
Jones, Edward R: So the the the the column number and the room numbers are always relative to the frame that you're putting this thing on so since stock room is a new frame.
Jones, Edward R: We can have the book course as many columns as we like, we only have a single column of rope buttons or check buttons rather.
Jones, Edward R: And so it's just common one row one, and then the next check button will be rope to the next one, and after that road three and a deck about 13 or 14 of these check boxes that are one know, maybe, only seven.
Jones, Edward R: In this particular gui seven different stocks that go in there and so everything in here now is relative to this new frame.
Jones, Edward R: And here we go if you look at the the function that is called when that first check button is clicked, which is the IBM check button.
Jones, Edward R: When that's called, the first thing that happens is we make sure that all the buttons are cleared, that is, all the checks on various stocks are all cleared off they're all erased and then we set the one that was clicked, which in this case is IBM number one.
Jones, Edward R: And then we let's see symbol oh yeah so then we set the symbol.
Jones, Edward R: Here equaled IBM so that's that first entry square that would be let's see if I go back to the to the main.
Jones, Edward R: thing here, this is the symbol entry or up here so that that particular set statement is setting the symbol here.
Jones, Edward R: which will appear as of all because we have a style associated with this entry box that has a larger font and the thought there is bold so that's what this set symbol is about putting the IBM letters in that box and then finally.
Jones, Edward R: This call start stack stock Stat rather What it does is it puts the stock prices in in this area of that second column, this is the second column on mainframe.
Jones, Edward R: And so you have the entries there that are the previous close the current closing price all of that gets updated when you click on.
Jones, Edward R: In this case, if you click on the first one that would be IBM and they'll be clicked on the fourth one and people there, so all of these numbers get updated.
Jones, Edward R: And inside of stock stuff there's a check to see whether or not one of these buttons is click and if it is then it updates the chart to for that particular stock.
Jones, Edward R: And that's the way it works.
Jones, Edward R: So if you want to you can download this stock I would the code rather and, of course, your could may already do this, in which case you don't really need my code, but.
Jones, Edward R: it's it should be doing it anywhere anytime i'll be i'll be looking at your uploads and your your submissions.
Jones, Edward R: And just checking to see that there's you've got all the features that we've talked about here, and if you did then, of course, you get 100.
Jones, Edward R: And if you're lacking a few features, then you might get a number of small of them back of course hope everybody, as usual, turn in your assignment, even if it's an incorrect or incomplete, please trying to do, because that way you don't get the zero you get something that's not a secret.
Karen Fireman: question now.
Jones, Edward R: Aaron.
Karen Fireman: Okay here yeah.
Karen Fireman: um I spent a lot of time trying to blank out the screen at the bottom when you clicked into the symbol I finally just put a picture of nothing in there, but is there a way to blank out the Madonna graph there when you click it you had asked us, you said when you click symbol.
Jones, Edward R: And you type in so the graph really absolutely.
Karen Fireman: That because I did it a clergy way I didn't like the way I did it but.
Karen Fireman: The right way.
Jones, Edward R: Well, normally what you would do is just send a you have to say, there is a label.
Jones, Edward R: statement for that this option.
Jones, Edward R: Right and that statement, instead of having texts equal to something as the keyword image and then it's equal to, and it gives you and the image is set equal to the the actual P Li l file and I don't have I didn't mention this by.
Jones, Edward R: let's see.
Jones, Edward R: No.
Karen Fireman: Thank you, and as a PNG and the example you gave us like Ts plot.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yeah yes, yes.
Jones, Edward R: hang on just a second i'm going to.
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to try to.
Jones, Edward R: Exit full screen.
Jones, Edward R: bring this down off of it for bed, and what I want to do now is, I want to bring down this Python solution to this computer is naked that there's some type of everything that should have and.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: And then i'm going to open up.
Jones, Edward R: spy spider.
Jones, Edward R: By the way, if you haven't opened up spider go ahead and do so as well because we'll be we'll be looking at spider tonight.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: There it is.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: OK.
Jones, Edward R: Now i'm going to try to open up the.
Jones, Edward R: file that I just downloaded.
Jones, Edward R: And I think it's in the downloads folder.
Jones, Edward R: There it is homework to you to open that up.
Jones, Edward R: And of course the the tape is so small that I can't read it.
Jones, Edward R: let's fix that can you read that here.
Jones, Edward R: hope you can.
Jones, Edward R: All right.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, good.
Jones, Edward R: What I wanted to show you was these import statements that are right below the T T kenter the tea kettle statements by now, I think you have a good feeling for what they're about.
Jones, Edward R: The way we're always use and take interest those inputs that you see there.
Jones, Edward R: And the asterisk is this like Is there something we forgot that we might want to use so put an asterisk there and then the tk is for the kinder decanter.
Jones, Edward R: So you go TT K dot label says, use the label that comes from T kenter instead of the label widget that comes from tk, which is the predecessor to cheek enter.
Jones, Edward R: And the next import that you see below have to do with the plot.
Jones, Edward R: And so math plot here it's doing a great job for us to actually create that plot.
Jones, Edward R: And when we save the plot from that plot live it's being saved as a file type P n G P amp G pop on November gamma I guess it is and golf and.
Jones, Edward R: So that's what math plot line is doing for us, the problem is that teak enter doesn't like a PNG file so and I say image equal to figure dot PNG it's going to croak on me T cantor's going to croak it doesn't like that.
Jones, Edward R: So it wants the images to be formatted into a different format and that's the reason why we have this from a PL import image tk so P, p.
Jones, Edward R: stands for Python image library, the Python image library actually has a method called image tk specifically for converting the images that are not.
Jones, Edward R: In the format for tk and they just convert them into that format now a jpeg would have to be converted a PNG would have to be converted.
Jones, Edward R: I think the only image that common image that might get through the net is she if I think if you have a G if you don't have to convert it, but all the other images have to be converted.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so nowadays most of my images are php or jpeg so you have to convert them The good news is converting the image is relatively easy so if we go down through the code here.
Jones, Edward R: And so i'm going to try to get down to.
Jones, Edward R: The area that you are asking about here.
Jones, Edward R: let's see So here we go, so you could see for each stock the stock number one being IBM and and so forth, each stock basically we have the same calls, we have a call to clear everything now this stock clear what it does in the function is just above here.
Jones, Edward R: Let me see if I can bring this up a little bit.
Jones, Edward R: Oh gay not so good already.
Jones, Edward R: On.
Jones, Edward R: froze.
Karen Fireman: We don't hear you.
Jim Clark: yeah there must be a buffer and when he must be filling it up where.
Karen Fireman: that's a guess, I mean there's.
Jim Clark: It can only tolerate so much.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: own fashion throttle.
Karen Fireman: Problems he's having is related to the fact that we started definitely the six o'clock seven o'clock thing is it related.
Clay Coleman: Now I don't know now.
Karen Fireman: All right.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: I would assume it's something to do in the building itself.
Clay Coleman: Yes, it looks like they're looking at the potato Internet so.
Jim Clark: It may be, in order to keep the left the the lecture flow and we might just asked him to turn this camera off except we really needs it to say stop video for his camera and just just lecture slides in the money.
Karen Fireman: So that wouldn't be.
Jim Clark: It conserves bandwidth.
Karen Fireman: Every turn the video off good idea.
Jim Clark: That was a story of my life copy the friends, you had to turn you couldn't turn video on because it would just it would it would crap out the system and France.
Karen Fireman: And it's true for me, the first four semesters here totally changed from at amp T to comcast so.
Jim Clark: If someone wants to try to Ping them say you know, maybe turn your video off unless you really need to show your face that may help with bandwidth.
Karen Fireman: On the chat.
Jim Clark: yeah well.
Jim Clark: I can.
Jim Clark: I can't do smoke signals.
Clay Coleman: i'm sure they can hear us over the speakers were the other class video is.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: I do think I heard, I heard that extra credit if you send messages through interpretive dance, so you know feel free to do what you will, with that information.
Hermano Ferreira: What are you drinking alden.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: drinking, oh no.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: To counter the wiling out any purchases does anyone have any stocks or bonds recently that they're very proud of that were modest reasonable and prudent purchases.
Wright, Elizabeth Harrison: can always invest in depth here, as you.
Karen Fireman: Go SCI there you go.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: morbid but true.
Karen Fireman: To say you're probably being winner this year.
Jordan Gross: Does it count if it was through an employee stock purchase program because they gave me a great discount at the end of this six month period, it was.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: going to.
Jordan Gross: be prudent I invested in apple going up credibly great idea, every time I suggest it to everyone, I know.
You.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: know I would recommend to just about anyone I know that's true.
Karen Fireman: So anyway.
Karen Fireman: The problem I was having wasn't the PNG the problem I was having I mean I ended up putting a picture in there, that was blank but I was just wondering if anybody was able to zap graph like with some kind of function, or something.
6 Aldin Dollens Laptop: You object people's blank.
Jim Clark: yeah that that's what that's what I did I can show you what I did you know if.
Karen Fireman: You just tell me consumer if you grab a screen, we might never get it back to him.
Jim Clark: there's there's a.
Jim Clark: it's like an opiate is one of our self.oh I actually got all my screen.
Jim Clark: In the clear there's like an IMG oh big image object, and so, so what I did, which may or may not be right is I just put in under the stock Stat.
Jim Clark: function I just said, if i'm gonna go get stats do self dot m obg.
Jim Clark: Right ego was not.
Jim Clark: In it, it goes.
Karen Fireman: And that work.
Karen Fireman: cool so you did that, after self that's close, but you didn't have to call anything.
Jim Clark: Well, no, because you, I have a function, I have a function down at the bottom that has for you, clearing out a lot of this we're clear entries I have.
Jim Clark: No, no it's not clear entry it's another spot.
Jim Clark: it's under its under the point where you're putting in that this.
Jim Clark: This image this image file, you can find it.
Jim Clark: Ever how we've got to take into the image file and save it and then you insert it in.
Karen Fireman: yeah I remember that it's down there for ad or something and.
Karen Fireman: yeah yeah.
Karen Fireman: Oh, you did self energy, I tried that self image equals quote coconut I couldn't get that to work.
Jim Clark: No, no, it equals none no Coco.
Karen Fireman: Coco didn't work for me.
Jim Clark: No, I just said, so the image.
Karen Fireman: Do you do that, and then and then something else that make sure that it loads it in, because it seems like sometimes you need to do, said or get or One of those is that.
Jim Clark: he's got his code i'm sure he's probably got something like that in there.
Karen Fireman: Okay well that's all I was really asking because I ended up putting in an image that was blank I just took a picture of the screen and I made that a file and I, and I put that in that in there, if you know if I.
Karen Fireman: like it, but it was it was not, it was a clue it wasn't a good answer.
Jim Clark: No, I understand, so, but what what I got help advice and I did was I put in, you know.
MS Analytics Class 2021: That should hopefully have enough.
Jim Clark: Jesus is like 65 Watts or so.
MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah, this is not this is this is like okay.
This is.
MS Analytics Class 2021: just another word yeah.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: And what I want to do now is.
Jones, Edward R: Look, I what I was going to do was just open up the homework problem homework number two is where I was at and.
Jones, Edward R: So this is somewhere number two we were talking about the PL and some of the other things, and now, if I run this.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Not that big.
Jones, Edward R: It up I run this.
Jones, Edward R: should get.
Jones, Edward R: There it is so here's the gooey.
Jones, Edward R: And it by typing sob s l the for silver and hit price.
Jones, Edward R: said interesting, so the silver price actually dropped today, you know, there was some discussion about what was happening with silver and, if we look at the actual closing price coming up here.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: What happened vertigo.
Jones, Edward R: Python quit unexpectedly.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: not sure what have been there.
Jones, Edward R: Try to launch it back bring it back up.
Karen Fireman: So, Dr Jones would I thought you asked us to do is to be able to click this side click buttons you know the selected favorites and then, after having those sitting there with the closing price sitting down below in the graph.
Karen Fireman: Then type in sov and see the graph below disappear, and then the, of course, the stats for sob show up that's That was a trick that I was kind of looking for I did a Cluj to show a blank screen, but I thought, maybe there was something better.
Jones, Edward R: mm hmm.
Jones, Edward R: Well, if you if you look at what's in this code that's I think that's where I got anyway we're so.
Jones, Edward R: Here we go.
Jones, Edward R: And you see if I can run this without Kevin.
Jones, Edward R: There we go so.
Karen Fireman: If you click the side first.
Jones, Edward R: sob.
Jones, Edward R: or silver.
Jones, Edward R: And then, if I asked for closing price let's see now.
Jones, Edward R: It doesn't like it.
Jones, Edward R: I don't know what's going on with that.
Jones, Edward R: So let's go ahead and move on from this.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to bring backup or try to bring back up the the PowerPoint presentation here and talk about this.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so i'm going to go down to slide.
Jones, Edward R: up here.
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to go down the slide number nine which talks about the Google goog le there's a male missing Google cloud, so what is Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: You some of you already probably know this, or if you don't you know about it and the Google cloud is a is a business within Google google's many businesses if you go to the URL shown here at the top, which is.
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to turn on the slide show.
Jones, Edward R: Where i'm going to try to.
Jones, Edward R: leave your current slide so a little bit larger there we go.
Jones, Edward R: Well, this is a picture of one of the Google, one of the google's large farms for the cloud, which is a collection of computers, that a lot of districts and so forth, they use to store data and information.
Jones, Edward R: So Google cloud is a collection of libraries that Google uses to build many of its solutions that you have, so the sun, the cloud in particular that we're going to be looking at is the clouds that they have or the libraries, they have for.
Jones, Edward R: Translating.
Jones, Edward R: language.
Jones, Edward R: Google cloud libraries are available for public use many are based on the state of the art Ai algorithms for search.
Jones, Edward R: For languages for audio and provision analysis so you'll see in a moment here what that entails, these include some of the Ai tool to tools that we discussed and 656 like neural networks, for example.
Jones, Edward R: And you might recall that in that course we talked a little bit about tensorflow and charisse in this course, about midway through the course we're going to talk a lot about tensor floor of flow and charisse and it's a major component in the Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: Here is kind of an overview of really big overview of what's in the cloud what's in the cloud, as I say, are a bunch of libraries.
Jones, Edward R: And so, once you have one of the libraries, for example, is called compute engine and you can imagine what that involves basically machines that allow you to do computations that those machines are in the date of the day, their data Center the cloud.
Jones, Edward R: Then you have storage, that you can buy you know you can get that software development kit here.
Jones, Edward R: sql is a type of live data library and so forth now most of what we're going to be talking about is in this part of the cloud will be here on the left, you see that it's labeled Ai artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Jones, Edward R: So we're going to take a look at what what's involved in that part of the cloud and, in particular, there are three things in here that we're going to talk about.
Jones, Edward R: On the far right hand side is a part of the cloud the cloud that's called translation and we're going to talk about that tonight.
Jones, Edward R: But if you want to go beyond that you can try it translation, the the cloud translation takes the text and translated into other languages.
Jones, Edward R: And it's more or less done and more or less done automatically, and I think, from what I could see is that Google has the edge on this translation business.
Jones, Edward R: There are a lot of translation engines or you can go on and say translate Spanish for me they don't do a very good job.
Jones, Edward R: And if you look at this what what Google is doing, you can see why that's happening.
Jones, Edward R: Now they also have something that we may play with a little bit, which is taking taking speech audio recordings and putting that into text, so it by combining the speech to text with the cloud translation, you can build software.
Jones, Edward R: get close to building software then we'll take a recording take a conversation and produce a text and a completely different language study the conversation maybe taking places Chinese.
Jones, Edward R: And then you'll be able to translate it out into English by linking these two libraries together now the cloud translation from Chinese to English is is very, very good, from what I can see.
Jones, Edward R: The cloud translation from Spanish to English is OK, I understand, but the the the actual translation is somebody said something to me like this, they said.
Jones, Edward R: You speak Spanish Okay, I understand what you're saying, but that's not how we say it, and so the problem is grammar the grammar is is a little bit off.
Jones, Edward R: In the in the version of Spanish translation that we're looking at now they have some other things here they have video Ai.
Jones, Edward R: Video of you know classifying video according to what it is they can actually look at a video and tell you what what the objects are in that video that's the idea behind that.
Jones, Edward R: There is a natural language cloud, which is sentiment analysis and classification of text, we talked about doing this and 656 years in SAS.
Jones, Edward R: And also using Python so they have a bit it'll be here, it will be interesting, we don't have time to do this, but it would be interesting to look at and compare.
Jones, Edward R: This Google cloud natural language translation against the other types of software that's a bit of all that we talked about at 636.
Jones, Edward R: Now some of you may be looking for projects here, you know for this class and I don't expect you to do something huge right.
Jones, Edward R: Something that's reasonable reasonably done in a small relatively small amount of time and investigating some of these parts of the cloud could be a good project for this class.
Jones, Edward R: So, for example, you could explore this part the cloud natural language and look at and compare sentiment analysis here with sentiment analysis, the way we did it in.
Jones, Edward R: or classification of the text, you know, identifying what are they talking about what other topics that's classification of text that's also available here.
Jones, Edward R: Now let's talk about how you get into the class, this is, this is the ugly part google's a large business, and so they have a huge marketing machine designed to encourage corporations to use the cloud.
Jones, Edward R: And in order to get access to the cloud software, you have to have a developer account.
Jones, Edward R: And the way you do, that has changed over the years for security reasons and also for just ease of use.
Jones, Edward R: And this is true, with Twitter and Facebook and, as you saw with alpha vantage they all have a special way you develop an account that, then you get an API key.
Jones, Edward R: or some other file or something like that which then gives you access to the software that they say is free right.
Jones, Edward R: There, a cloud software is tree on a limit on but it's basically on a limited basis right so for what we're going to do in class it's this free.
Jones, Edward R: But if you were doing this commercially let's suppose you drew you develop an hour that now you want to sell that and you want people to be able to use to translate.
Jones, Edward R: conversations or some sort and you're going to use the cloud, well then you're going to be paying a fee, which is relative to how many Apps you sell and what they people are doing with them, and so forth.
Jones, Edward R: So how do you do well, if you need to in order to get a well I have something up here be aware of Google marketing students can avoid the big g.
Jones, Edward R: If you once you jump into this little part of their of their of their website you're going to get some heavy handed marketing from Google like you need this yeah it cures world hunger.
Jones, Edward R: You ever you know sign up tell us all about your corporation, and the thousands of people they're going to use the software right that's what they're geared up to do.
Jones, Edward R: And they have sold that to a large a lot of large corporations to software corporations right, so they Google said tells them that look you, you are developing the software and you need you need language translation, or you need image recognition or voice recognition, we got it.
Jones, Edward R: no need for you to reinvent that but you know it's not going to be that expensive, this is the marketing machine so when you get into this part of the of the.
Jones, Edward R: web page of the web, the area that we're going to look at just be aware that they're going to try to get you to click on something.
Jones, Edward R: That will take you to someplace in the cloud where really it's the big corporations that they're trying to fish they're trying to walk here and not you, you know somebody just trying to learn this so you go to this webpage and I think the webpage here is.
Jones, Edward R: cloud.google.com cloud.google.com and if you go to that web page you'll get a button that says guy get started for free.
Jones, Edward R: And you want that's the one you want to click on Now let me go.
Jones, Edward R: jump out of here just for a second and go over to the safari.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: You know Okay, what are you doing now safari see I don't use safari, so this is one of the reasons I it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay it's up here yeah all right there you are okay so i'm going to go to Google and i'm sorry.
Jones, Edward R: cloud dot Google.
Jones, Edward R: Why is that, in the way.
yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Forget safari let me go back to the chrome.
Jones, Edward R: here.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to do cloud.
Jones, Edward R: That google.com.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, here it comes all right, so of course you have this.
Jones, Edward R: Nice picture of their cloud and now i'm going to extend this and go.
Jones, Edward R: I will i'm going to go Google.
Jones, Edward R: cloud.
Jones, Edward R: That google.com forward slash.
Jones, Edward R: Free.
Jones, Edward R: Forward slash.
Jones, Edward R: So it's google.com free.
Jones, Edward R: cloud.google.com slash free slash.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, all right here, then you get to this page right here, solve real business challenges on Google cloud Okay, you can see here the marketing.
Jones, Edward R: Okay $300 three credit really okay yeah so they're going to they're going to want to charge you if you end up if you try to use the cloud for commercial uses large commercial uses this is one of the ways that are going to they're going to make any money.
Jones, Edward R: Now, on yours, it probably does not say go to console it probably says something like go to free use or something like that it says go to console if you already have a developer account.
Jones, Edward R: If you already have a developer account in the cloud, which they see me.
Jones, Edward R: And they say wait a minute you already have one so go to the console.
Jones, Edward R: Well Jamie, what is your say this you're saying go to console or go to what good of.
Karen Fireman: Yours yes get started for free.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Karen Fireman: Like hearing your system for free.
Jones, Edward R: yeah okay so most of most of you, I expect you're going to get a.
Jones, Edward R: Blue button that says go here for something free at you want to click on that, and you want to sign up then for So if I go over here, where you see my little picture over there, that was taken years ago.
Jones, Edward R: Sign out of all accounts boom.
Jones, Edward R: Really boy.
Jones, Edward R: cancel.
Jones, Edward R: I didn't mean to do that okay.
Jones, Edward R: So yeah.
Jones, Edward R: So let me go back to cloud.
Jones, Edward R: That google.com slash.
Jones, Edward R: Free.
Jones, Edward R: Now, then I should get to the funky button.
Jones, Edward R: get started for free that's the button, I was looking for right there, so if you're not already in if you don't already have a developer account it's going to say get started for free, they lie.
Jones, Edward R: Right and then it says hey go go watch you sign in one of these others, I think you and i'm not going to do that because.
Jones, Edward R: Well i'm trying to imitate what you're going to see and you're not going to us it's going to want you to sign into a Google account if you have that that would be a gmail account.
Jones, Edward R: But, at any rate, you take it takes you through this whole process of signing up and then they'll you have to give them your information.
Jones, Edward R: Your personal information about your address, and you know who you are and that kind of thing your company name if you.
Jones, Edward R: just leave that open or just put on Texas a&m or something like that, and then it finally gets to the back end of this thing and it says well okay we're going to give you a delta developer account, but we need your credit card.
Jones, Edward R: So Google, why do you want my credit card, they say, well, we want to make sure that you're a real person and not a robot yeah Okay, there are ways to do that without taking my credit card.
Jones, Edward R: The real reason for the credit card is that they're going to give you basically an allowance and it says.
Jones, Edward R: There, in the case of translation, they give you an allowance of half of the million characters per month, if you use this translation engine.
Jones, Edward R: And you do not translate more than a half a million characters per month, they won't charge your card, that is true.
Jones, Edward R: But if you should translate more than a half a million characters and, by the way, a small book is more than a half a million characters.
Jones, Edward R: or a little video might be more than half a million characters then you're going to get a charge on your car.
Jones, Edward R: Now what I what i've decided to do here is, I want to encourage you to go ahead and get your own developer account.
Jones, Edward R: And so I have a couple of slides here that talk about this and there's the URL google.com and it is free right, so I would like you to to do your best to get your account set up, and I think it's fairly.
Jones, Edward R: Self explanatory they tell you what's going on.
Jones, Edward R: The only note that I would say is.
Jones, Edward R: Be just be aware they're they're a little bit you know, like I know we don't really need your credit card, but we're going to be please give it to us anyway yeah.
Jones, Edward R: I think this is fairly secure, and so I have given them my personal email address and credit card in order to get the credentials that I need in order to access the cloud.
Jones, Edward R: If you decide that you don't really want to do this that's your a little bit on easy about this whole thing.
Jones, Edward R: You can use my credential and i'm going to provide them to you here tonight on the website only thing I ask is don't do too many characters okay don't translate the Bible, please don't.
Jones, Edward R: Take the Bible and translated in Chinese or something no don't do that, by the way, you can do that it is possible, but.
Jones, Edward R: let's not do that let's keep it down to 2000 3000 at most a translations.
Jones, Edward R: If you get your own credentials, you can you can translate up to 500,000 characters per month and then after that.
Jones, Edward R: They charge you a few dollars per million characters it's really not that much and so people are using the cloud to develop Apps that they can then sell to other people.
Jones, Edward R: And they can credit from they can make money off of that and then, of course, they pay a certain fee to Google to be able to do that.
Jones, Edward R: So I think it would be good if you go through and set up your own account, but if you don't want to go through all that trouble now okay don't worry about it.
Jones, Edward R: Well, I got your back on that, but the setting up the account gives you a better idea of what's happening inside Google, the way they price things.
Jones, Edward R: And the way they talk about things, and they they're going to talk about it in the context of Oh, you must be with Chevron or you must be with IBM or some large corporation and we're going to make some money with this don't worry about it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, they all do that.
Jones, Edward R: Now, Google organizes their accounting by your projects and so when you're setting up your account.
Jones, Edward R: The next thing they're going to ask for is what is the name of your project now, you can have more than one project, I would suggest you just tell them is tm six or one for general generic project name.
Jones, Edward R: And then within that project, you can you have to give them a credit card for that project and then within that what they will do.
Jones, Edward R: Is they will allow you to attach the tools that you need for this thing is funky okay so they're going to let you attach.
Jones, Edward R: The cloud the cloud translate library so that's the that's the library, we want it's called cloud translate.
Jones, Edward R: that's the way they refer to it that's the library we're going to be using and what happens then is they send you a little text file.
Jones, Edward R: that's not too large it's maybe 200 to 300 characters and they call this their credential your credential file.
Jones, Edward R: And now, in the past they used in different form of authentication in the end they're closed out the use of the co op.
Jones, Edward R: Which is a common form of security that us with Twitter and Facebook and some other you know other places that distributed sell data basically and.
Jones, Edward R: So all of these folks you notice with alpha vantage we had to give them an API key and then they took that API key and then gave you access to their data.
Jones, Edward R: So these companies are also doing the same sort of thing they're selling data over the Internet or in the case of Google they're actually selling software algorithms.
Jones, Edward R: snippets small libraries for use general use that in your APP or your your company whatever you're going to do with it.
Jones, Edward R: And then, what they're going to do is they're going to have some kind of the now we're talking dollars here unless you're IBM, and you have this huge number.
Jones, Edward R: Actually, if they if you get charged a lot of money, it probably means you're making a lot of money because that's that's where the the big numbers come in, if you distributed an APP and that APP gets sold to thousands of people and they use it for translation you're going to get built.
Jones, Edward R: But the good news is if in that situation, you should be making good money on that distribution.
Jones, Edward R: So you can build your own Apps and you can sell or use them commercially or you can turn them into this class fast your class project okay.
Jones, Edward R: So this is one of those areas where you might be able to form up a class project around one of these Apps.
Jones, Edward R: And the APP that we're going to be looking at here in just a moment for the homework is, if you took it and you moved it up to a slightly higher level that would be a class project, so this will be to show you what i'm talking about.
Jones, Edward R: registering and in creating your own account with Google is a form of authentication that's how they know who you are, and when you run your software or your APP whatever it is.
Jones, Edward R: They know who did it, and if you do too much of it you're going to get a bill, and they all work that way with that advantage, we had an API key.
Jones, Edward R: They were nice enough really nice to say okay you're all students you're in a class and so forth, and so on, so have at it.
Jones, Edward R: and get distributed this key, by the way, it's going to die at the end of the Semester somewhere around there so they're not completely exposed, but other people instead of an API key, they will have something called an old Och P, which is similar very similar to the API key.
Jones, Edward R: What what what our vantage is calling the API key it's just a long list of alphanumeric characters that you have to give this.
Jones, Edward R: In a handshake in your software so in our software, we had to have an API key and we had to send that API key to alpha vintage before we could ask for any time series data or any stock prices or anything like that.
Jones, Edward R: But once we shook their hand and gave them the API key they knew who we are then they're happy to give us the data, because we ever held is set up.
Jones, Edward R: Now, if you we were commercial they will be tracking how often how much data we download and they would be charging this money.
Jones, Edward R: But I don't know I talked to the right people or something got lucky and they just said okay you're good.
Jones, Edward R: They maybe they have like a an avid aggies I don't know.
Jones, Edward R: who uses something totally different the Google cloud is not is as actually I liked her so that approach, better.
Jones, Edward R: If you use an API key that API key is visible in the code so anybody who gets access to that code can see that API key, then they can you serve it and.
Jones, Edward R: Basically use it for their own purposes, and meanwhile you're paying the bill, or whoever owns the key right so like any other thing like identity theft, if that happens you're probably going to have to a column about can you key please.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, more security, more security you're going to hear that well what the credentials file it's different.
Jones, Edward R: You still have this information and it's the credentials file is unique to your profile and your credit card your credit card is not in this file, by the way.
Jones, Edward R: what's in the file or some special project now there is a special number that identifies your project and some others descriptors that are in there.
Jones, Edward R: But the nice thing about this is that you have to send them a bio but you don't have to put the file inside the code it's not indigo.
Jones, Edward R: You put it in a separate file the code reads that file when it executes and then sends them that information so if somebody should give access your code unless they have that file it won't work so.
Jones, Edward R: For all everything by keeping that file protected, you can encrypt the file and.
Jones, Edward R: Computer encrypted so that nobody can use it unless they know how to encrypt that file, though I think it's a better way to to to handle this problem of people hijacking API keys and getting a free access to David they're trying to sell.
Jones, Edward R: Okay here's the APP this is your assignment for this week and i'm going to show you a little bit about what's going on here, this is fun.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, this is the Google translate is really amazing in most respects and let me tell you why it's amazing.
Jones, Edward R: Typical translation will be a word for word or a couple word translation right, so you got Spanish here and they see I blah and then Okay, that means to speak, or to you know say something.
Jones, Edward R: And they they just go to the dictionary and say Okay, here it is put the word in a you know one Spanish word one English word like that one for one.
Jones, Edward R: horrible translation it's hilarious when they do that you can imagine what happens there and then, when you get to other languages, where.
Jones, Edward R: there's even a larger difference in the structure, the language it gets the be even worse, so what google's done.
Jones, Edward R: Is they are using a machine learning technique now so when we had 656 you've learned about.
Jones, Edward R: analyzing natural language it's by looking at the structure of the language and that helps you to then identify the topics that are being discussed in the conversation.
Jones, Edward R: Well, what Google is doing is they have taken the same sort of approach that you use a natural language analysis and now applied it to translation so.
Jones, Edward R: that they have a large software they call ml auto ml and what that does is machine learning so instead of just doing a word for word translation.
Jones, Edward R: they're looking at the entire context of what's being talked about, and then using that to do the translation.
Jones, Edward R: So, this would be this would most likely involve a very large and heavy neural network that.
Jones, Edward R: allows us probably created using something like tensorflow and charisse so they built this huge network, specifically for translating certain languages right.
Jones, Edward R: So Spanish is, you know that they need to work on a little bit more the some of the grammar is funny, but it is really.
Jones, Edward R: quite good compared to what the word for word translation model used to how that used to work and i'll show you some some examples of that.
Jones, Edward R: Now Chinese I don't know Chinese, but I did translation, so I went to the Chinese website copy the characters which are beautiful but I don't understand them.
Jones, Edward R: But through the translation engine Oh, my goodness, it looks to me like a perfect translation so somebody really worked hard on the Chinese neural network that makes that translation.
Jones, Edward R: And in fact for most of these languages like I did some I know German a little bit, so I did some German things to see whether they would catch it or not, the German translation is excellent, you know, and then the Italian and the Latin translations they even have Zulu.
Jones, Edward R: The land and they have Navajo translations, if you want to translate something into the Navajo very, very cool.
Jones, Edward R: And not only that, but you do not have to tell Google this translate software, what is the language you're talking about so you can give them, for example, a Spanish.
Jones, Edward R: And the Google will figure out Oh, this is Spanish so they then they use the Spanish translator and they produce the output can be any other language, English, it could be Italian what have you, and so the the identification of the incoming language is automatic in this system.
Jones, Edward R: And now you can specify what that is, but in this APP it's automatic.
Jones, Edward R: Because the incoming language is pretty clean, you know if you have a mixture of languages on the incoming file, you may have a problem.
Jones, Edward R: But if it's just all Spanish or all Chinese or what have you does an excellent job of recognizing what the native languages that's coming into the system.
Jones, Edward R: The target language is the transaction that translation language, and you can see, in this particular APP I distressed store describing here they set a target languages that I was sort of interested in, so I know a little bit of Spanish little bit of German, so I was curious about that.
Jones, Edward R: And then, of course, I was coming from South Africa visiting there I know Afrikaans and zoo little bit, believe it or not, similar was probably the number one language and South Africa.
Jones, Edward R: And then Chinese I thought well Chinese and they really translate Chinese yes very, very well, so this APP the way it works is.
Jones, Edward R: You can type something in various like if you have just a sentence or two or word and you want to translate that up here says short translation, you can just type it in right up here and then you click this button that says translate.
Jones, Edward R: And then, when you get through, you can click clear and it will clear out that whatever it is such a if you type down up there, the translation will appear in the upper windows spider so it'll come over beautiful watch over the output window spider that shows up over there.
Jones, Edward R: Now, if you have a longer.
Jones, Edward R: text like a whole file of it, you can click on this button that says text file and then what it will do is it allows you to browse.
Jones, Edward R: Where that file is located, and they will open that file and then translate it once again it doesn't matter what the language is in the incoming file.
Jones, Edward R: What it does is it looks at whatever you want, as the output, the translation on the right hand side, so, by default, that is English so that opens up a Chinese file it's coming back as English but.
Jones, Edward R: You could take a Chinese file and produce Afrikaans or Arabic or person or what have you whatever you want it there.
Jones, Edward R: Now, once once the translation also appears in the spider output window, but if you want to you can click on the SAVE button here, and it will save the translation to another file.
Jones, Edward R: And the SAVE button or similar to the text file button allows you to browse and just save it wherever you would like and it's going to be saved as a standard text file.
Jones, Edward R: Because of the encoding of the languages and in Chinese in particular use a certain coding.
Jones, Edward R: Now these buttons are all working right now, so your homework assignments well this button on the right hand side that says save.
Jones, Edward R: It doesn't work right now, so your homework assignment is to make it work, that means you have to go in and an extra figure out who's doing what.
Jones, Edward R: And then save the translated document to translate a document into a file using the file what's called a file dot dialogue in T kenter.
Jones, Edward R: There is a file open and about closed dialogue inside of the character which allows you to create a button that says save and then it'll pop up and say Okay, where do you want me to save it.
Jones, Edward R: What director, do you want me to go into what you want me to call it, so you have that that kind of thing, and it is, it is done differently in windows and Max.
Jones, Edward R: It uses the internal software on those systems to make this happen in a natural way for the user right now the audio button.
Jones, Edward R: And the website button are not working, you are free to do it now, this would be a good project is to flesh out this sort of thing, maybe add to it a little bit of, for example, the audio button here, you could use the cloud.
Jones, Edward R: Recording to text feature so there's a part of the cloud you saw that earlier, it says okay this particular library, you can speak into the microphone and produce text.
Jones, Edward R: Now, how well the second work that he told no.
Jones, Edward R: You better have a good microphone you better not have much background noise, but the what you can do is, you should this out your button is you could allow people to.
Jones, Edward R: create a recording save it to a file and then send it over for translation I think that's the cleanest way to do it if you try to do it real time theoretically that's possible but.
Jones, Edward R: I tried it a few times and wasn't very happy with it, this one on the far left html reader give me a well and website location and I will go and pull all the texts out of that and translate it.
Jones, Edward R: That means, you have to strip the html before you do the translation, there are many ways to do that, there is the request function.
Jones, Edward R: Request library and Python that will allow you to that allows you to read html and and push it out as a straight text file.
Jones, Edward R: So that the button on the left, could be handled that way, but right now the only button that really is working is this one called text, while.
Jones, Edward R: And you click on it, and it will allow you then to open up a text file and your homework assignment is to create insert the Code into this APP.
Jones, Edward R: That allows you to save the translation Okay, also in your homework assignment you're being asked to expand the list of natural languages that you see here I want you to do that and I give you a list of what those languages are, I think it's let's see Korean.
Jones, Edward R: yeah, so this is saying, basically, you need to make this save button work and now it's not working.
Jones, Edward R: And then you want to add Japanese Korean of enemies enemies and lab.
Jones, Edward R: Latin is kind of interesting because it's not the same as attacking.
Jones, Edward R: Back in the day, by the way, when I was a kid Latin was the most common language that people study in college or in high school.
Jones, Edward R: The idea, there was a Latin as the basis for all the romantic languages, French, Spanish and Italian and if you know Latin, then you can come to get along in French and Spanish and Italian.
Jones, Edward R: I don't believe that, but it is the root of all those languages, and of course there's quite a bit of Latin me in English as well.
Jones, Edward R: Now please in testing out what you're you're working everything i'm going to give you some some test files and i'd like you to use those.
Jones, Edward R: But if you want to try something different than that's fine keep it down to about 2000 characters if you're using my credit card if you're using your credit card go for it, you know.
Jones, Edward R: it's not that expensive, but if you want to.
Jones, Edward R: Do a book go to.
Jones, Edward R: Gutenberg gutenberg.org I think it is that so there's a website where you can download books and texts large books there's thousands of them, and you can find them in different languages.
Jones, Edward R: But once you're done upload your Code and the APP that is a screenshot of it running and also the test cases and their English translations.
Jones, Edward R: Please let me know also when you're submit your homework, whether you're using my credentials file or your own credentials file.
Jones, Edward R: If you're using your own mind rather i'd like you to explain why what it what it What was it about creating your own credentials file that kept you from going there.
Jones, Edward R: I need to know what this is the first time i've tried to teach this sort of thing in class because because of the need for.
Jones, Edward R: credit cards, and all that sort of thing, and you know you're you're working with a large corporation, and it is painful some time, so I hope this goes well, but it's going to be a learning experience for me.
Jones, Edward R: Now let's get back to.
Jones, Edward R: Reading go back to Python here and I have the template okay now if you go to the week three folder right here, and if you clicked on the the folder that says week three lecture files open it up okay.
Jones, Edward R: I have some test files here, I have two files that are in Chinese.
Jones, Edward R: These are articles about presidency and the Chinese navy.
Jones, Edward R: which they say is second only to the United States in terms of its size and I believe that, although I think the French the British and some of the to Europeans may take exception to China sorry the Russians probably would take exception to that that comment.
Jones, Edward R: And then I have some Spanish things, of all things Sinhala which is Sinhala is just well they're right there adjacent to the sea of Cortez so you have Baja California, that you have similar right there on the other side and said alone produces most of the probably most of the agriculture.
Jones, Edward R: That that they sell from Mexico to the that states, you know the mangoes the tomatoes, the avocados they're coming most of those are coming at us in the lower.
Jones, Edward R: Well, it turns out that the women who live up in the mountains, the set of the day they think that they grow some coffee and said, well, I sent a close kind of tropical but hey so is.
Jones, Edward R: You know, Guatemala, Costa Rica those places so there's a little article here about the women in similar growing coffee.
Jones, Edward R: And I was, I thought that was kind of an interesting thing another was when next time I go back to their i'm going to come to go up there, to the weather growing this and.
Jones, Edward R: actually talk to them and find out what does that whether they're having any fun we're not now.
Jones, Edward R: Then there is a baseball series called a group series and Muslim and that's also in Spanish, so these files, you can use these as test cases, so you can open, you can have the APP read the Chinese file and then produce the English or produce the French or whatever you want to do.
Jones, Edward R: And then, this is this is this file this says translate template you see that one that's the that's the Python code that will produce the the basics for that that template that you saw.
Jones, Edward R: Now y'all need to expand that in your homework assignment.
Jones, Edward R: Then there is my credentials right down here and i'm going to open this up for download right now make available boom right there should be.
Jones, Edward R: shouldn't be okay right now there, it says, Google translate credentials, those are my credit card credentials Okay, so if you are successful in getting your own credentials and I hope you do.
Jones, Edward R: get your own you can use this Okay, and certainly you could use this to develop the.
Jones, Edward R: For the homework assignments, you know to do them in order to test the modifications you're going to have to do that now let's go back over to let me go back over to spider here.
Jones, Edward R: ups, before I do that I need to download I need to download the template right so i'm going to click on that guy it's coming rundown and I also need to download.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: I need to download the json file right here.
Jones, Edward R: that's the credentials and we would go down there, they are Oh, this will that make a lot of sense to you.
Jones, Edward R: You see what I mean, and this is the see that thing that says began private key you see that says private key look at that thing okay.
Jones, Edward R: I don't know how they generated that but yeah nobody's going to be copying that unless they copy the entire file, by the way you when you you'll see in the code.
Jones, Edward R: But the code does is it actually has to read this file and send the whole thing over to Google and then Google says okay you're good to go.
Jones, Edward R: We got your credit card, and fortunately you'll look in here and you'll see there's nothing in here about me credit card or anything like that they so these numbers are.
Jones, Edward R: used by Google to identify me, but nothing in here would help anybody do that.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so.
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to go over here into into Google, I mean i'm spider rather i'm going to close down the the program hw to.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to then open I hope this wouldn't work on this computer it worked on the other, computer open.
Jones, Edward R: And I think it's the download area that is that was put no he didn't go there, oh.
Where did it go.
Jones, Edward R: wow Let me try the desktop.
Jones, Edward R: I don't see it there.
Jones, Edward R: Let me go back, let me go back and do another download about.
Jones, Edward R: Maybe I did the.
Jones, Edward R: Professor at the processor yeah it says keep or discard right.
Jones, Edward R: So I have to say, keep.
Jones, Edward R: All right, then, that came down and this thing I don't think.
Jones, Edward R: let's see file.
Jones, Edward R: Save page.
Jones, Edward R: downloads credentials Jason yeah mm hmm.
Jones, Edward R: yeah we did that.
Jones, Edward R: yeah I forget that the this.
Jones, Edward R: spider doesn't want to open up files.
Jones, Edward R: Unless you say yes please do that so Okay, let me go back to downloads again, it should be there now there it is okay good, so we have the translate template now it has number one on ones I don't like that okay.
Jones, Edward R: We may have to rename this it, it also has will translate Google translate credentials that that's important so i'm going to open up this guy right here.
Jones, Edward R: I don't think Python will choke on that one.
Jones, Edward R: Get command requires the command line developer tools could, would you like to install these tools, no I don't know i'm not doing any getting.
Jones, Edward R: Alright, so let me make this larger.
Jones, Edward R: You can see.
Jones, Edward R: There is some you'll see the code is very familiar looking you see the import statements there.
Jones, Edward R: You see, the PL no I don't have the PA we're not doing grip plotting map lot live here, but we will see some new statements here google.org dot U Th authenticate.
Jones, Edward R: And then from Google cloud import translate underscore be to as translate and then import storage Google cloud storage So those are the parts of the cloud that we're getting access to.
Jones, Edward R: And you see when the translate gooey is called, of course, the the canvas G when is pushed over to the gooey but look at this instead of API key we're pushing over that file credentials.
Jones, Edward R: And you can see right here, it says self credentials equal credentials we're storing that off.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: will be using that later now all of this business.
Jones, Edward R: should be fairly familiar with you, you know the the entry, there are some entry boxes, or some buttons and labels and things like that.
Jones, Edward R: And a whole bunch of stuff here the languages that are coming in there and here's some checkboxes let's let's crack Let me try to crank this up keep your fingers crossed all right let's see what happens.
Jones, Edward R: And birchard occurred while starting the Colonel I don't like that.
Jones, Edward R: over here.
Jones, Edward R: yay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: I don't think it actually started, so we we try run this file again.
Karen Fireman: it's saying that the project fall is the credentials file is that what we mean.
Karen Fireman: On.
Line 321 2323.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: The credentials contain all that information, the.
Karen Fireman: name of the project file or that's the name of the credentials file.
Jones, Edward R: The name of the credentials file is Google translate credentials.
Karen Fireman: Case it's calling that the project file is that what we'd want to call the project.
Jones, Edward R: yeah You see, I just named that you give it any name, you want.
Jones, Edward R: Google Project file.
Karen Fireman: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: You can you can give that anything you want right.
Jones, Edward R: So you just loading you're saying okay this file is going to be called Google Project file and then you say load credentials from file and then you use the same name, right here.
Karen Fireman: Oh, I see Okay, thank you.
Jones, Edward R: yeah you could call it, you could call it P file or API file and then use.
Jones, Edward R: The same name over here.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, but this is this little APP Google dot art, which was in that import statement has a method called load credentials from file and so that's what we're doing there.
Jones, Edward R: You sending that over to the cloud and Google is then he's basically authenticating looking at the at the file and you will get an error message if there's something wrong with that file.
Jones, Edward R: All right, if Google doesn't like that file you're going to get an error message from Google, which basically says no, no we're not gonna let you in.
Jones, Edward R: That sort of thing.
Jones, Edward R: Now.
Jones, Edward R: Where is the APP.
Jones, Edward R: That running.
Jones, Edward R: I don't see it running.
Karen Fireman: My country doesn't seem like why couldn't.
Jones, Edward R: We.
Jones, Edward R: get this, you have a poi country thing you can take that out it's not being used, it was something that I was experimenting with.
Jones, Edward R: So okay.
Jones, Edward R: We try that again.
Karen Fireman: Google cloud either.
Karen Fireman: Oh, do we have to do content install.
Jones, Edward R: Okay let's.
Jones, Edward R: see if I get it oh run there's a run thing run.
Karen Fireman: Do we need Google an installation of Google cloud because seems to not have it.
Jones, Edward R: it's not running for some reason.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Let me try this console restart Colonel.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yes.
Jones, Edward R: It says, an error occurred while starting the Colonel again that's looking a little more normal.
Jones, Edward R: Now let me try that run.
Jones, Edward R: And it should that again.
Jordan Gross: Professor and, I believe, if i'm not mistaken earlier when it asked about the get connection, I think it needed that to be able to install some of the packages to interface but i've run into that issue before.
Jordan Gross: We IP colonel, especially so.
Jones, Edward R: i've never seen i've never seen that i've never seen that but I suspect you're right it's just.
Jones, Edward R: I need to I need to update this this computer on museum I haven't used in some time and so it's basically I think what is seen as you need to update this computer, that is, the Python part of it.
Jones, Edward R: And so I will I will do that and then tomorrow night we will get into this a little more more carefully.
Karen Fireman: And we can we ask a question, though, because I, I tried on my screen to to do what you just did, and it said no module name Google cloud when I tried to run it.
Jones, Edward R: It says what.
Karen Fireman: No module named Google cloud and I.
Jordan Gross: Can yeah You can check the chat there's a solution to that in that.
Sorry.
Jones, Edward R: What is the solution.
Jordan Gross: Just to pip install the Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: Oh yeah yeah.
Jones, Edward R: yeah you need to.
Jones, Edward R: that's right i'm glad you mentioned that Oh, my goodness, this thing here called Google Google cloud, you need to install.
Jones, Edward R: And that's why that is why i'm getting.
Jordan Gross: Like copy and pasted kindles comment.
Jordan Gross: I was just mentioning to Karen that I pasted candles comment again.
Jones, Edward R: yeah actually I think you can just say kinda.
Jones, Edward R: Read over here on this side part, you can see kinda.
Jones, Edward R: install.
Jones, Edward R: Google.
Jones, Edward R: cloud.
Jones, Edward R: I believe.
Jones, Edward R: That you saw you that's what that's that's why it's not getting off the ground is because I am this particular machine I didn't install I don't think I installed the Google plug.
Karen Fireman: It just like that it says some new module name Okay, then it says when I tried that content store Google cloud and it said, you may need to restart the on all but it also says package not found Google cloud.
Karen Fireman: And then, it says current channels and it's got a bunch of channels repo a condo.com packages.
Clay Coleman: Karen if you if you look at the it's not Google cloud it's Google dash cloud dash translate there if you look at chat oh.
Karen Fireman: Sorry.
Jones, Edward R: well.
Karen Fireman: it's found there, I was looking at the earlier one okay thanks.
Jim Clark: install it is okay.
Jones, Edward R: yeah the install should work.
Jones, Edward R: kinda install Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: And it's it's a.
Jones, Edward R: It takes a while it's just collecting package metadata.
Jones, Edward R: This is a large package.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, it did say yeah I said no, I didn't like it.
Jones, Edward R: Oh.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: So, reading the Google documentation, they say, Google cloud packages deprecate it instead of that they have individual packages for each module that you want to use so, for example, if.
Jones, Edward R: You know, translate I don't know I worked it I did this on my home computer and didn't have this problem right, I think.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: You can install individual package I.
Jones, Edward R: Think, I think a bunch I don't think you have to do that.
Jones, Edward R: And it works, you should be able to install Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: And I think I think i'm amelia used to tip.
Jones, Edward R: don't remember having his breath.
Jones, Edward R: I don't remember a lot of things see there it goes.
Jones, Edward R: So if you use pip.
Jones, Edward R: restart Colonel.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: we're running out of time here i'm going to go ahead and just let you let everybody i'm sorry for the problems tonight i'll try to make it up to you, tomorrow, and I will make it up a little better and going forward.
Jones, Edward R: will do a reboot reboot on this whole arrangement and see whether we can.
Jones, Edward R: You know the idea behind this arrangement was that we would get better audio and video better video, but then we have problems with this, and I think the problem here is I didn't I didn't.
Jones, Edward R: Really thoroughly check out this computer before coming up here, I thought it was I thought I forgot the stuff was not installed on here so i'll need to make sure that that's in the future that is different.
Jones, Edward R: I think we're we're all right.
Jim Clark: But that just thanks for for for trying to make the system work, I really appreciate the effort.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Yes, thank you very much.
Jones, Edward R: yeah I think.
Jones, Edward R: Once we get through this I think you're going to enjoy this because the the translate thing is is kind of fun and.
Jones, Edward R: There are other things that we can do in the glue Google is there is an area called Google Apps.
Jones, Edward R: As well as Google cloud so Google cloud gives us access to things like tensorflow and cares it gives us the ability to recognize images and voice and text and things like that.
Jones, Edward R: And there's something called Google Apps and you probably have are if you've gone on Google and said, give me directions.
Jones, Edward R: Give me directions to someplace that's Google Apps and you can get access to the things like the direction.
Jones, Edward R: The navigator they call it Google navigator and there's some other Apps as well, and there are some features in those Apps that are time from time to time use.
Jones, Edward R: And one of the features, for example, as you can give it two locations and they'll tell you the distance between those two locations.
Jones, Edward R: And that's kind of nice if you get data and you say well this I have data here, where the person, it was born here where they live here, and I would like to know how far that is.
Jones, Edward R: Well, you can use Google Apps to automatically fill in that data right it's fairly easy to do so, and the access to the Apps and the cloud are the same you basically have a.
Jones, Edward R: file a credential file and then with that you can run that that the code so tool so tomorrow night okay well i'll try to do better and we'll we'll have this working for sure tomorrow night for sure okay i'll see you then.
Jim Clark: Yes, Sir, thank you.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Thank you.
Zuberi, Bilal Mustafa: Thank you, Professor.
Wilson Pineda: Thank you.
Jones, Edward R: yeah I wish I had another monitor I could.
Jones, Edward R: See everybody.
Jordan Gross: Take care.
Jones, Edward R: bye bye you to.
Jones, Edward R: Stop sharing all right.
Jim Clark: Stop recording with the music on there.
Jim Clark: So Karen are you still there.
Jim Clark: yeah so.
Jim Clark: He may have already gotten this have you got this to work with the APP comes up or are you still getting.
Karen Fireman: Enough it came up.
Karen Fireman: yeah.
Jim Clark: It did a different me, which is for someone that's struggling with this.
Jim Clark: Will.
Jim Clark: share with you in case you didn't have didn't have.
Karen Fireman: hip stuff really helped, but I couldn't actually get my own to work, I tried getting my own to work and it gave me something, but when I put in the projects, he had said tambo and I put that in and it didn't know what to do with that, so I went back, he says.
Jim Clark: Okay, all right thanks we'll see you tomorrow night.
Karen Fireman: One last question for you, Jim.
Jim Clark: yesterday.
Karen Fireman: When you when you have it up there on just says a quick question I so we put in the first blank into the short translation, we put in one file in there and then we took those buttons at the bottom.
Jim Clark: I wasn't quite sure, yet I gotta try to watch the replay.
Jim Clark: When it comes over he's going pretty quick.
Karen Fireman: I know that's why I was having a little trouble with.
Jim Clark: The replay is saved my life, all the time.
Karen Fireman: i'm going to ask him right now, because it's right there, Dr Jones can you hear me it's Karen.
Karen Fireman: Dr Jones.
Karen Fireman: Dr Jones can you still hear us.
Karen Fireman: Now.
Jim Clark: Yes, I think the answer is no.
Jim Clark: No okay.
Karen Fireman: he's closing up shop.
Jim Clark: Apparently, he didn't have enough screen size, where he can see us as students, which, which is terrible but he'll see us tomorrow night but I mean.
Karen Fireman: Alright well thanks see you guys.